+++
date = '2025-08-30T16:06:38-05:00'
draft = false 
title = 'Between Monophobia and Agoraphobia'
description = 'The Grief for Lost Futures and the Haunting Spectre of the Past'
+++

The cruel irony of my psychoses lie in the anxiety produced by my being alone and the apoplectic revulsion for other people. This, I do not think, is a conscious decision, but rather one that was I created as some kind of defense from me by the circumstance of family, upbringing, and identity. To be clear, my family and upbringing were a relatively normal one---free of hunger, fear, and material restrictions---but it was certainly not free of death, grief, and emotive struggle. Through my own mistakes and vicious twists of fate, I am left paralyzed by the fear of the outside, and the fear of my own internal state of being.

In a way, I probably should have recognized I was gay/queer/something at an earlier age than I did. I still think and, to a certain extent, grieve for a life where I could have felt more comfort and familiarity with my own body and mind. When I was born, at least the story goes, some in my family thought I would be intellectually stunted, due to some now-forgotten reasons that some of the educators in my family shared with my mother and father. When I was in Kindergarten, it became clear that while I was not intellectually stunted, I most certainly was emotionally. I distinctly remember my weekly meetings with the elementary school's staff psychologist, where I was taken out of classes, sat in a small chair, and watched videos (movies?) of talking cars. (With research, I think that this video-series was likely _Auto-B-Good_). Now that I am older, I can recognize that these pictures were attempting to teach me how to talk to people, how to manage emotions, how to be a functional person. I remember being an emotional child, with a predilection for crying and unaware of how to socialize with other children. Perhaps that is why I gravitated towards socializing with adults, as I could not, handle socializing with people my age. Prior to my entrance to primary education, both of my parents worked, and thus I attended a pre-kindergarten school. While all other children were asleep for naps, I would never be able to sleep, and thus I would just sit with the teacher, helping her grade what then counted as "school work" for children under 5 years old. I remembered often being disgusted by the other young boys around me, and instead would socialize with the girls who were in my classes at the time. Further, I would often express interest in clothes which---by early-to-mid-2000s---standards, were considered feminine. Before I reached 6 years old, I was already unconsciously questioning my relationship with my gender and, to the extent that a 6-7 year old can understand, my sexuality. In a way, I was attracted to my few male friends at the time. I have episodic memories of kissing another male student on the cheek, and him being extremely confused/disgusted about what I was doing. In my young mind, this was nothing more than a display of affection for which I did not understand the social taboo.

Perhaps, then, it is clear that I was a socially and emotionally confused child. While I certainly expressed a latent homosexuality that I denied for the better part of a decade, others around me often picked up on it. I was one of the handful of people in my middle-school class that was indifferent, even supportive, of gay people. Of course, young, gay pre-teens existed in my school, as they do in every group once they reach a critical mass. But there was no gay dating (insofar as pre-teens "date") in my school---and transgender people were out of the question. That would be too much for the desolate cultural landscape for the suburban North Texas school district in which I went to school.

The first time I was called a faggot was when I was 12 years old. It had something to do with a conversation about hair, presumably because I expressed that I wanted to grow it out. I remember not feeling angry or slighted, but mostly confused. I had never really dated a boy (or, at that age, a girl for that matter), and I felt that because of these reasons it was obvious that I was not gay. But I was certainly showing occasional signs of queerness. Perhaps it was because I hated the other boys in my school, or because I wanted to rebel against the role that was thrust upon me ever since I was a child.

When I was maybe 15 or 16, I wanted to grow my hair out, and my father would make me cut it. I wanted to get my ears pierced, and my father would not allow it, even though my sister, 4 years younger than me, had been allowed to do it. Which, to a certain extent is still something for which I resent my family. When I was a freshman in high school, I found my earnest love for acting and theater. My freshman year, I was in the choir for the musical, _The Addams Family_. This involved much makeup, something that I found that I enjoyed having on. Once I had been in several shows, I justified my purchase of eyeliner and eye-shadow to my family (and, perhaps, to myself) that I would need it for theater. I remember one night after an _Addams Family_ rehearsal, I went home and washed everything off my face except for the eyeliner and some of the eye-shadow. For some reason I wanted to wear it to school. When I went to school the next morning, immediately, a girl who I knew only in passing, looked at me and asked in a somewhat accusatory tone: "are you wearing _makeup_?" I stumbled over an answer about how it was for the musical I was in and shuffled off to a class that I do not remember.

I did not realize it at the time, but all of this led to the feeling that I was being oppressed by the culture I was raised in. That I hated where I was born and raised. That I needed _escape_ from the torturous existence that is suburban North Texas. To make this escape, I worked extremely hard. I did junior and senior year of high-school at the same time, and ended up taking somewhere in the neighborhood of 10 AP tests at the end of the year. This allowed me to graduate early, just before I turned 17. I ended up taking a rather large scholarship to DePaul University in Chicago, because it was the school furthest away from Colleyville, Texas in which I was admitted and could afford to attend. This is where I would liberate myself for the first time. As any college freshman does, I had a fake ID, ostensibly to purchase alcohol. I think I used it more to get tattoos and piercings while underage than beer. The first time I got my ears pierced, I cried when I got back to my dorm. My first tattoo, a small line drawing of Sisyphus on the inside of my right bicep, would only grow more meaningful with time. The first time my hair grew past my neck and touched my shoulders, I cried. The first time I dyed my hair bright pink, I cried. I did not really understand why, but I cried a lot.

During my first years of college, I would wear makeup to class. There is a picture of me with dyed-pink bright hair, a borrowed knee-length leopard-print fur coat, and a full face of makeup. I would wear short cut-off shirts, short jean shorts, etc., truly the uniform of any queer guy in Chicago. Even in this, I insisted that I was straight. I think that most of the people around me did not believe that. Even after I had actually kissed another man for the first time, and didn't hate it, I insisted that I was straight, somehow. Finally, after much discussion with the people around me, I decided that I hated being a man and could not see myself becoming an adult as one, and so I decided to transition.

All of this is mere prologue to the actual point I am trying to make. The recognition that I wanted to be a woman, or to transition, led to my first real confrontation with struggle. Transition was contradictory; both a progression and a regression. The progression in the sense that I finally liberated myself from my own thoughts. I had finally begun the process of truly liberating myself from the myriad internalized -phobias and -isms that plagued my socialization as a child in Texas. At the same time, I regressed to a form where the label of being transgender scared---and still scares---me. In my mind being transgender---not just a man who likes to dress in a certain way---opens up a whole new host of problems. Instead of embracing the masculinity of "wearing what you want," I have rejected the entire notion of my masculinity, and to a certain extent, I think that scares me. Or maybe more that it scares me to think of what other people will think.

As much as I try, I still struggle to kill the fascist in my mind. I am haunted by hypothetical situations, tortured by "what-ifs" and fears that I cannot overcome. I am fortunate enough to live in an extremely tolerant area, where being transgender is not met with open hostility, but I still cannot overcome the voice in my mind that prevents me from being who I want to be. Seven years ago in college, before I had even ever met a transgender person, or even knew that transitioning was possible, I was more comfortable embracing femininity than I am now.

I do not know how to describe this experience outside of referring to a kind of ego/superego/id dynamic. There is one part of my mind that knows what I _should_ do. I _should_ be able to wear whatever I want to work. I _should_ not lie to this person. I _should_ not say unkind things to the people that I love. Then there is a second presence that invades my mind when I am not vigilant to my own thoughts and actions. It tells me what I _must_ do. That I _must_ avoid the theoretical harm that people will do to me if I dress or look a certain way. That I _must_ lie to this person so that they like me. That I _must_ somehow demonstrate superiority over others by saying cruel things that I do not actually mean.

All of this leads to an excruciating existence where I exist on an ocean of instability. I know that I would feel better, work better, love better, and be better if I could kill the voice in my mind that disallows me to enjoy my life. I wish that I could hate hypothetical people in my mind less. I wish that I could be seen by others without feeling white-hot rage for random people that pass me on the street for hypothetical future slights that they have not committed. I wish that I could be alone without feeling an overwhelming sense of melancholia, dread, and most of all, regret. I am unable to be alone because I do not allow myself to grieve. I do not allow myself to grieve the death of my mother. To grieve that she would never know who I am now. To grieve that she would not be able to know that I finally do not want to kill myself all the time. To grieve the person that I could have become had I just somehow known that transgender people exist.

Thinking about the past is a deeply unsettling activity for me. I know that I live(d) in hate and cruelty towards others. Thinking about the past forces me to be embarrassed that I had been a certain way or said a certain thing that I have regretted for years. I grieve that my mind and experience have made me angry all the time, even when I do not want to be. I still grieve all the friends and relationships that I have lost or abandoned because of the hate that I have for myself and others. I still grieve that even when I try so, so hard, I cannot seem to change the past, present, or future.
