+++
date = '2025-10-20T02:08:57-05:00'
draft = false
title = '53LF-M0D3L C0LLAP53. Or, The Geotraumatics of a faggot.'
+++

I am publishing this technically on October 20th, but I wrote it the night of October 19th-20th. October 19th is a strange day for me. It is my mothers birthday. It is peculiar. It has been nearly ten years since she died, but I cannot keep myself from feeling deeply emotional thinking about it. I think, to a certain extent, this is where my fantasizing of violence is from. It comes from a place of anger at others, at myself, at the world, at the mind God.

I feel a lot of clutter in my head. I think it begins with my unwillingness to admit that my life has been hard for me. I feel ashamed to admit that it is hard. Perhaps because I see so much greater suffering in the world, it feels selfish to think that I have it hard. Somehow, I think that this blog helps. It is a way for me to throw something out into the world. Something that is more purposeful than a tweet, but also can be thrown away without too much care. I had a conversation the other day. I mentioned to someone, only partially in humor, that I feel myself becoming a hoarder. There is a pain I feel to throwing certain things away. But certainly, there is also a greater pain in keeping the clutter in your head. Someone said to me the other day that hoarding is a trauma response. Perhaps that is true. But then again, there is a shame that I feel for allowing myself to feel. It is a fractal loop all the way down of feeling about feeling and repressing that feeling. This is an unbearable reality.

I recently learned that being made to go to a clinic in a dark building where they put electrodes on your head and send electrical currents through your skull is not a very common activity. In looking at it online, it seemed to be something akin to [trans-cranial direct current stimulation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Transcranial_direct-current_stimulation). Having worked with electronics a fair bit before, it does seem that in my case, the clinician---if she was a clinician---administered a much higher current in a much broader area of my skull than other researchers. I still do not really know what the goal of this activity was. I do not know if this was some treatment for major depressive disorder, or a neo-electroshock therapy, or anything. It seems that it just happened without real thought. This is an unbearable reality.

The prospect that my entire life, all that I have accomplished or failed, the violence that I have done to myself and others, the shame and pride, the hate and love that I cannot seem to control. In a strange way, it feels as if there are several different people inside me. One of them is _the_ I, it is the one that knows that I should love and not hate, that I should not talk to people I love as if they were bags of discard-worthy flesh. It is in a sense, a super-ego. It attempts to regulate the other aspects of my mind. There are things I say and do that I almost feel like I cannot control. I feel a hate for others, and I feel hate for feeling this hate, and it is all just hate all the way down. When I attempt to leave this psycho-somatic Escher painting of hate, when I try to reach for others, it only results in a self-inflicted wound. This is an unbearable reality.

I desperately wish to escape the spiraling loop of internal and external violence. I think, at the prospect of somehow finally feeling that I had escaped it, I get much too excited. I feel unable to contain my emotions. In my rush to mature intellectually, I have failed to emotionally mature. I have had a whole fucking career since in some of the most exclusive institutions in the country since I was 20. I am approaching 25. I still find myself craving the acceptance of the older men in my life, and craving the closeness of every woman in my life. This is an unbearable reality.

I often think about how different my life would be if I had just been allowed to transition when I really figured out I wanted to when I was 13. To be honest, if I had even known trans people existed and it was an option for me, I probably would have done it even sooner. There are core memories that play over and over again when I am idle. 1) I am in kindergarten. I really wanted pink shoes. My mother bought them for me. I said I like pink when I went so school. That was when I learned what the word gay meant. 2) It is Christmastime, and I am about 10 years old. I am at a family member's very large house. They have young daughters who have lots of costume dresses. I put one on. It feels nice. 3) I am in middle school. My father and I are arguing about my hair. I want to grow it out. He makes me cut it. 4) I am in my first-year of high school. I am in a musical production of the Addams Family. My friend helps me put on makeup for my role. I only take off the makeup that does not cover my eyes. I wear the remaining makeup to school the next day. That was the first time I was called a faggot. 5) I am arguing with my father again. I wanted to get my ears pierced. My sister, 4 years my younger, had them pierced. The request is refused. 6) I am in my second year of high school, I have a crush on a boy. 7) I am in college, I use a fake ID to get my ears and nose pierced. I dye my hair pink and wear makeup. Somehow, I refuse to think that I am gay to some degree.

Each of these are unbearable realities.

I am so tired of constantly defining myself in relation to other people. Craving respect, attention, and most of all love. I wish to be my own person. My constant oscillation between personalities---not to be confused with personas---is the product of trying to be many different things to many different people. I want to grow my hair long and color it with fun and crazy colors. I want to wear what I like to wear at work. I want to get a face tattoo. The same people who tell me that I should care less about what other people say are the same ones who are most judgmental about my appearance, my activity, my life.

Hell really is other people. But my personal Hell is not the mere act of being around others. It is the constant anxiety to perform for others. This is _the_ unbearable reality. The reality of being perceived by others.
