+++
date = '2025-10-05T17:57:16-05:00'
draft = true
title = 'Thoughts on Research Optimization'
+++

When I was an undergraduate philosophy student, my class assignments and research projects were originally written in a Word Document, with a physical copy of sources next to my keyboard. I raw-dogged citations, and became very familiar with Chicago-style citations and hot dogs. However, my research interests increased in breadth of source material, methods, and people involved. Now, four years after completing my undergraduate career, references in my/our research papers increasingly range from historical documents to software libraries. The organization of divergent sources of information is challenging, especially when integrating this with citation managers, collaborating with others, traveling to conferences, etc.

Luckily, I have made a pretty solid career out of organizing information. It is one of the things that brings meaning and pleasure in my life. I have been researching with our Principal Investigator for about a year now. I have certain things that I wish we could change, but unfortunately, I am constrained by the interests in my collaborators. It is easy to forget that others do not spend hours agonizing over how they can optimize their research technology and habits. In the era of team science, and increasingly, team humanities, it is simply a fact of life that we must sometimes compromise over tooling. I will certainly not force some poor journalism student to learn $\LaTeX$ just so that I can avoid Microsoft Word. Thus, this will be a general framework to guide my thinking in how we should (or should not) consume research media.

In my view, there are three main stages of any research project: illumination; experimentation; and analysis. The first two steps are what we will discuss, as the "analysis" step is highly field-dependent. Illumination, though, happens in the same way to everyone. We read a text, listen to a lecture, observe some natural phenomena that piques our interest. We then toss it over in our mind, think about the possible ways of implementing this idea, _et cetera_. For me, the vast majority of potential project ideas fail in this category for any number of reasons. Perhaps there are those who have a greater proportion of successful ideas than me. The second stage, experimentation, is when we actually put pen on paper, so to speak. For me, this could be messing around with code, doing more formal research into previous research in the space, or just writing down some theses. The vast majority of ideas that escape mere illumination fail in this step. I may realize that I came had the same idea someone else did five years ago, or perhaps the thesis is just not very supported by the evidence.

These two sectors offer different areas that we can study. As illumination belongs to the realm of information synthesis, librarians already have done much research in the field. The first of which is information discovery. In an ideal world, our secondary schools and undergraduate programs would not be centers of information recapitulation, but instead centers for the synthesis of information. In a world where information (of low- or high-quality) can be summoned instantly and cheaply, we need not assert that mere recitation of biblical passages passes as education. Thus, we must make high-quality information achievable.

In this search for information, we must begin at the device that performs the search. Prior to the invention of the computer, often this was done by humans with highly specialized training in whatever field of librarianship they practiced. Librarians---as far as I can tell in an academic setting---no longer do nearly as much information discovery as in previous decades. Clearly, this was a consequence of the digitization of scholarship and the internet. Students and faculty are often able to find highly-specific works in extremely niche journals with relative ease. However, just as someone should not use a smartphone for computer programming, we must identify which tools are most appropriate for this information discovery task.

The most obvious answer, of course, is Google. Or, lately, ChatGPT. I will admit to having queried several models for articles or book recommendations on a particular subject of research or interest to me. Perhaps contrary to what most librarians will say, I think that large language models specifically are extremely useful for academic searching, particularly when that model is complemented with a RAG engine. One of the first things you learn in library school, and indeed computer science, is the concept of boolean logic. I think that technology has advanced enough in natural language processing to reduce, but not eliminate, the need for less technically-literate scholars and students to learn boolean search. Regardless of the sources of information, we must return to the best device to do it. For me, this is a computer, searching for information on a computer is a terrific experience, while _reading_ information on a computer gives me a headache. I justify this in my mind by arguing that one would not sit and read an entire three-hundred page book in the aisle of a bookstore---or preferably a library---they would instead return home, having borrowed or purchased the book, and be comfortable. It is the same way with a computer for me. I cannot bring myself to look at a computer for several hours to read a book. I would much rather look at something that is less intense.

As I am completely off of mass social media and not on my phone nearly as much as I was five to ten years ago, I find myself unable to look at my phone for more than a few minutes at a time. Writing this blog on my computer is indeed straining my eyes and attention. At the same time, I have found myself able to sit and read a physical book for hours at a time with few breaks in attention. This occurs regardless of the genre, or subject matter. Indeed, I surprised even myself when I read the near-entirety of Midgley's _Science as Salvation_ on a plane, rarely interrupted but by the kind man giving me those fun little coffee cookies during the flight. Thus, in an analogy so tortured it could bring a case in The Hague, we think of the computer as a library and the device upon which we read it as, I don't know, your couch or something, I don't know you.

Now, I am very pro-library, and I am also very anti-writing in library books. That means that I typically will not make notes in the margin of a text, but I do sometimes want to jot something down. I have recently taken to carrying a small pocket notebook that has quotes that I have found interesting in books, or short thoughts about whatever happened to be on my mind. Me personally, I indeed hate taking notes on a computer. There is so much more fun to be had in paper. My notebook has lots of drawings of little kitty cats in the margins of the pages. Typically, I avoid using electronic means to jot notes. I really only use a laptop computer to search for sources, to experiment with code, and to write. Every other step of the research process can trivially be done on paper.

I clarify laptop because I got an e-reader last year, and I think it bridges the gap between the bulky computer and the notebook. It allows me to take hundreds of books and articles with me on the go, so I can get a quick read in on the bus or the train or the plane. Although it is touch-sensitive, I do rather hate how it feels. It feels like paper, but bad paper. Rough and scratchy and it 
